So welcome back, guys.
Now, continuing with the discussion of mamady management in case of multithreaded process and this
lecture video, we're going to focus on the management of beds, tables of a process when a process
create a new thread so you can see you have a process of virtual memory snapshot on the left hand side
and the right hand side.
The virtual memory snapshot on the left hand side is a snapshot of a process in execution, whereas
virtual memory snapshot on the right hand side is a snapshot when the process has actually created a
new trend.
So not that we are talking about the same process be and virtual memory snapshot on the right hand side
will be the snapshot of the virtual memory of A process.
B, then the process B has created a new trend.
The second diagram is not a separate virtual memory, but it is a snapshot or instance of a virtual
memory when the process B has created a new trend.
Now we already know that process virtual space is fragmented into virtual pages.
So you can see when the process was executing and and when it did not create any thread, then you can
see that following will be the fragmentation of the virtual memory of the process being right.
This part of the virtual memory of the process B was not used.
But since the process has now created a new tragedy, therefore there will be two additional virtual
pages that will be used.
Those virtual pages will be the virtual piece, number 13 and virtual page number 12.
So this word just corresponds to the additional STAC memory that will be used by a newly created threat.
Now, when the process had not created a threat, then following is the representation of a stable of
A process B.
Now, this acts denote any frame number, so you can see that virtual page number from zero to five
of A Process B maps to the corresponding physical page number.
And let us assume that these physical pages are loaded in some frames in the main memory.
Now, which frame in the main memory is not important.
This X does denote some relevant frame number of the main memory.
And since after virtual page number five, no more virtual pages has been allocated to the process.
So you can see that the page table entries corresponding to virtual page number from six to 13 are empty.
Right.
So these are empty.
And corresponding to the virtual page No.
P 14 and 15, which is used as a stack memory for the execution of a process, we have page table entries,
right.
So this is the page table description of A Process B in execution when the process B had not created
any thread.
Now let us discuss what will be the modification in the Pens table of a process P one.
It had created a new thread.
Now, on the right hand side is the snapshot of the virtual memory of A Process B after third creation.
So forming is the best table of A process B after creation.
Now, can you spot the difference between earlier page table and the second page table?
The only difference that you can see is that in the second page table, there are two additional entries
corresponding to virtual page number 12 and virtual page number 13, because these two virtual pages
were assigned by the operating system to a process B to be used as a stack memory for the execution
of a new trend.
So corresponding to these virtual pages, physical pages are created and loaded in some frame number
in mind memory.
Other than that, there is no difference between the two page table snapshots, no, but these are not
different.
This table, the second table is the updated version of the first page table.
That is when the Brussels B has created a new thread.
Then how the page table would look like that is represented by the second page table.
So you can see that there is only one page table to be used by a thread as well as the process.
If the process creates more number of threads than those additional threads will continue to access
the same page table.
A thread can access any address that belongs to this piece table.
Of course, the exception is that that a thread should not access watcha pages that belong to the stack
memory of other threads or process.
So it means that a newly created thread must not exist anywhere to an address that belongs to the virtual
page number 14 and 15.
And similarly, a process B must not access any virtual address that belong to the virtual page number
12 and 13.
The reason being that stuck memory is private to a process or a threat.
Otherwise, you can see that a threat or a process can access any virtual address that belongs to any
valid virtual page number that is assigned to a process.
So now let us summarize what we have just learned, so a newly created thread shares the same virtual
memory as that of a patent process.
There is absolutely no separate virtual memory that is created exclusively for a new threat, a new
threat, access the same page table.
Also, there is no new space to be created for a new threat.
Now, let us suppose that a tragedy performs some right operation at virtual Atlas V with this virtual
Atlas V belongs to the Heap segment or data segment of a process virtual space.
Now, some changes are visible to any other thread or process.
Right.
And the reason is that there is only one page table which is shared by all the threads and apparent
process.
So any modification that is made to the Heap's segment or a segment of our process watch all across
the space, that modification will be visible to all of the threads are process.
Virtual pages, which belongs to New Trad's tech memory, are created upon creation of new thread and
corresponding physical pages are created by the operating system and are loaded in some frame number
in the main memory as per the page replacement algorithm that shares the same piece table as that of
a patent process be except new virtual pages to physical pages mapping that is created for new tech
memory for a new trend.
Right.
So we already saw that when a new threat is created, operating system create new virtual pages as well
as new physical pages for the new threat.
And the mapping between these two new virtual pages to physical pages is updated in the midst of a process.